Add u: options namespace (#846)
unicode-org/message-format-wg: spec/formatting.md

3. Perform _option resolution_.

4. Determine the **_<dfn>function context</dfn>_** for calling the function implementation.
   This includes:

   - The current _locale_,
     potentially including a fallback chain of locales.
   - The base directionality of the _message_ and its _text_ tokens.

>    If the resolved mapping of _options_ includes any `u:` options

Reviewer: This seems like special pleading on our part. The `u:` namespace is "just a namespace"?

Perhaps:

```suggestion
Implementations are encouraged to support _options_ defined in
the Unicode Reserved Namespace (`u:`).
```

Author: It's not "just a namespace", because it needs special powers to affect the _function context_, though.

Reviewer 2: I think that the "function context" context distinction is an implementation detail.

In most formatters implementations the locale and the options on how to format are passed to the constructor as parameters, at the same time.

I would rather look at this as "universal function parameters" that might be recognized and honored by several / all functions.

Reviewer: I think the problem here is that the **_current set_** of `u:` options behaves that way, but we might introduce one that isn't function context affecting in the future? If our intention to is to _require_ that all such options be context-affecting, we should set that as a requirement in the design doc and elsewhere. We might need to contemplate an additional namespace in the future as well, although I can't think of any universal options just at the moment that we wouldn't just put in the default namespace.

Note: I am not disagreeing with doing this. Just making sure we're consistent and clear about it.

   supported by the implementation,

>    process them as specified in the [Unicode Registry](/spec/registry/unicode.md).

Reviewer: Unicode Registry => Unicode Reserve Namespace registry

3. Perform _option resolution_.

> 4. Determine the **_<dfn>function context</dfn>_** for calling the function implementation.
>    This includes:
> 
>    - The current _locale_,
>      potentially including a fallback chain of locales.
>    - The base directionality of the _message_ and its _text_ tokens.
> 
>    If the resolved mapping of _options_ includes any _`u:` options_
>    supported by the implementation, process them as specified.
>    Such `u:` options MAY be removed from the resolved mapping of _options_.

Reviewer: I think we should be more disciplined about defining terms.

```suggestion
4. Determine the _function context_ for calling the function implementation.
   
   The **_<dfn>function context</dfn>_** contains the context necessary for
   the _function handler_ to perform formatting or selection. It includes:
   - The current _locale_,
     potentially including a fallback chain of locales or locale identifiers.
   - The base directionality of the _message_ and its _text_ tokens.

   If the resolve mapping of _options_ includes any _`u:` options_
   supported by the implementation, process them as specified.
   Such `u:` options MAY be removed from the resolve mapping of _options_.
```

Question: should "function implementation" be "function handler"?

Author: > Question: should "function implementation" be "function handler"?

Yes, this text is from before the latter term was introduced.

> The **_<dfn>function context</dfn>_** contains the context necessary for
> the _function handler_ to perform formatting or selection.

This bit should perhaps be reworded a bit, as with our current language technically the _function handler_ doesn't do the formatting or selection, but returns a _resolved value_, which then either does or enables formatting and/or selection to happen.

> the resolve mapping of _options_

Is the suggestion to not say "resolved mapping" intentional? That phrasing seems a bit awkward.

Reviewer: > Is the suggestion to not say "resolved mapping" intentional? That phrasing seems a bit awkward.

No, that's a typo. Apparently, I'm very consistent about that specific mistake. Not sure if we should use the term _resolved options_ instead of "resolved mapping of _options_"

3. Perform _option resolution_.

4. Determine the _function context_ for calling the _function handler_.

   The **_<dfn>function context</dfn>_** contains the context necessary for
   the _function handler_ to resolve the _expression_. This includes:

   - The current _locale_,
     potentially including a fallback chain of locales.
   - The base directionality of the _message_ and its _text_ tokens.

   If the resolved mapping of _options_ includes any _`u:` options_
   supported by the implementation, process them as specified.

>    Such `u:` options MAY be removed from the resolved mapping of _options_.

Author: Yes, with the qualifier that this does not mandate that all future `u:` options will behave like the current ones, but it allows for them to do so.

>    Such `u:` options MAY be removed from the resolved mapping of _options_.

Author: I'm not sure that it's necessary to make a commitment. We should (as you propose below) define the namespace a bit better, which does some of the work, but we should not make it impossible for us to extend it later.

- The _identifier_ of the _markup_
- The resolved _options_ values after _option resolution_.

If the resolved mapping of _options_ includes any `u:` options
supported by the implementation,
process them as specified in the [Unicode Registry](/spec/registry/unicode.md).

> Such `u:` options MAY be removed from the resolved mapping of _options_.

Reviewer: See above

Reviewer 2: > Such `u:` options MAY be removed from the resolved mapping of _options_.

?
Why?

Reviewer: I think @eemeli is thinking that they've "done their job", e.g. if you have:

```
.input {$foo :datetime u:locale=fr}
```

... then the implementation has read the `u:locale` option and set the locale of `$foo`'s `:datetime` invocation to French (in the formatting context). In such a case, `:datetime` doesn't need to know about this. In most cases, I think that's correct (if the function wants to know about the locale or direction or id, it can read it from the formatting context). But I could see a function or markup wanting access to the `u:id`. I can also imagine `u:xxx` options in the future where that might not be the right thing to do. Finally, this creates work for implementations (although it is only `MAY` and not required work).
